---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Kindling the fire for Software Engineering
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-17
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

## What began it all? 

  Software Engineering and Computer Science in general never crossed my mind until fall registration came around for my first year at UH Manoa.  I've always had a creative mind, often projecting my ideas on videos that I created or lego objects that I built as a child.  When I figured out about programming, my interest sparked and I began to do more research, figuring out ways that my creative mind could be used within programming.  I found software engineering and instantly I felt that it was exactly what I sought after and it also provided me with a huge challenge to learn to program, and I welcomed that.
  
## Aspirations within Software Engineering
    
  Upon doing more research and finishing up my first year of college with ICS 111 and 211 under my belt, I felt that I did not want to do the typical Software Engineering like creating an app or program that someone pays me or the company I work for to do.  I want to make a difference with programming and the things I create.  As I researched more, I found working for the government or a defense contractor as a way to do that.  I feel as if normal Software Engineering projects would eventually become boring for me, but creating software that actually could make a difference, I feel, would be something I would take immense pride in.  Not to say that I would take less pride in normal projects, but having something that I create to make a difference within the world would mean so much more to me.
  
## Skills and overall goals
    
  There are also skills that I would like to develop during my time here at UH.  I want to become more comfortable with coding, and able to think quicker while programming.  I believe that ICS 314 will do just that with the Pedagogy that Professor Johnson as presented to us.  The WODS that we are required to do, should help me think quicker and work under stress.  The WODs will ultimately help me to become more comfortable with coding.  The two goals that are the most important to me are to get my degree in ICS and get a job that I am happy with and can live the rest of my days out doing.

